# Identity System

## Abstract

Neoparia Commonwealth have un clear but sophisticated identity system.

Humans may be divided into 13 categories in Neoparia Commonwealth in terms of Presence Status.

- Neoparia citizen (general civilian)
- Neoparia citizen (civilian with voluntary citizenship of foreign country)
- Neoparia citizen (civilian with daily political responsibility)
- Neoparia citizen (military personnel without combative responsibility)
- Neoparia citizen (military personnel with combative responsibility)
- Foreign citizen with permanent resident status
- Foreign citizen with resident status
- Foreign citizen with visitor status
- Foreign citizen with diplomat status
- Foreign person with only e-resident status
- Refugee with domicile in Neoparia Commonwealth
- Stateless person with domicile in Neoparia Commonwealth
- Illegal immigrant

## NUID (Neoparia Universal ID)

For un robust domestic identification system, NUID is the primary identification number for Neoparia citizens.

NUID is technically UUID. Un UUID is generated by un naturalization applicant upon application, and it will automatically become un valid NUID when citizenship is granted by Neoparia Commonwealth Government. Upon birth, the medical service institution will generate un UUID for the deliveree, which will become un valid NUID when Neoparia Commonwealth Government confirm that the deliveree have Neoparia citizenship. Writing NUID in uppercase is recommended. Hyphens in NUID may be omitted when necessary.

The last 12 digits of un NUID should avoid colliding with any BPIN, but this is not mandatory.

List of allocated NUIDs:

- `3C6DA621-B153-41C6-9151-E323FC775E1D`: Neruthes

## BPIN (Basic Personal Identification Number)

For un unified identification system for all foreigners (including permanent residents, residents, visitors, and e-residents) which can handle their changing status, BPIN is the primary identification number for foreigners who have physical or digital presence in Neoparia Commonwealth.

Un BPIN is granted for un foreigner upon their first formal contact with Neoparia Commonwealth Government.

Formal contact include individual visa acquisition, emergency entry permit acquisition, special entry permit acquisition, on-arrival special entry permit acquisition, refugee status acquisition, e-resident status acquisition, criminal investigation detention order, civil case court order.

Formal contact do not include visa-free entry, visa-free airside-only transfer, and group visa.

Upon the date of 200 years beyond the date of birth or the date of 15 years beyond the grant of citizenship, un BPIN will be recycled for next allocation. Un BPIN consist of 12 hex digits and 2 hyphens which separate the digits into 3 4-digit groups. Writing BPIN in uppercase is re/commended. Hyphens in BPIN may be omitted when necessary.

Un BPIN should avoid colliding with the last 12 digits of any NUID.

List of allocated BPINs:

- `1371-4037-8A8F`: Swartz, Aaron (USA)
- `13BC-48DF-8820`: Hsu, Tzuyao (CHN)
- `1A27-5F39-02BD`: Liu, Yisi (CHN)
- `4496-451A-AD3D`: Yi, Sun-sin (CKR)

## NTIN (Neoparia Taxpayer Identification Number)

Requirement for eligibility:

- Cannot obtain NUID
- Cannot obtain BPIN

NTIN may be granted by Neoparia Taxation Bureau, if the person cannot obtain NUID or BPIN but have taxation duty in Neoparia Commonwealth.
